---
layout: "post"
title: "Example React App into Salesforce"
excerpt: "This is an starter kit to work with react and redux into salesforce."
categories: articles
date: "2016-07-19 18:14"
tags: [react, salesforce ]
author: pirata21
comments: true
share: true
comments: true
image:
  feature: punta.png
---

# Example React App into Salesforce

This is an starter kit to work with react and redux into salesforce.

We will be using two JavaScript libraries in this demo:

React and Redux.

[https://github.com/Pirata21/salesforce-react-demo](https://github.com/Pirata21/salesforce-react-demo)

## Building solution:
* Clone this repo
* cd into react-way
* run ```webpack``` command, which will produce ```bundle.js``` and ```bundle.js.map```
* Zip these two files and add as a Static Resource in Salesforce
  * Alternatively you can do ```npm run deploySR```
  * This will run 7Zip the two files descibred before and run a custom node app that will deploy the Zip file
    to Salesforce. The code for this is in ```deploySF.js```. This has been
    tested on a Windows 8.1 64-bit machine with all the proper environment
    variables set

## What is React:
* The “V” in MVC
* React abstracts away the DOM from you, giving a simpler programming model and
  better performance.
* Creates the view based on your Data
* Official [documentation](https://facebook.github.io/react/)

## What is Redux:
* Awesome! Great work done by @gaearon. Checkout the official [documentation](http://redux.js.org/)
* A predictable state container for JavaScript apps (similar to Flux, Alt, etc.)
  Simple Overview
* The whole state of your app is stored in an object tree inside a single store.
* The only way to change the state tree is to emit an action, an object
  describing what happened.
* To specify how the actions transform the state tree, you write pure reducers.

## Parts of Redux:
### Actions
Actions are payloads of information that send data from your application to your
store. They are the only source of information for the store
```javascript
{
  type: ACTION_TYPE,
  ... Additional Data
}
```

### Reducers
Actions describe the fact that something happened, but don’t specify how the
application’s state changes in response. This is the job of a reducer.
```javascript
function myReducer(state, action) {
  switch (action.type) {
    case MY_ACTION:
      return Object.assign({}, state, {
        key: value
      })
    default:
      return state
    }
}
```

### Store
* Actions represent the facts about “what happened” and Reducers update the
  state according to those actions.
* The Store is the object that brings them together. The store has the following
responsibilities:
  * Holds application state;
  * Allows access to state via getState();
  * Allows state to be updated via dispatch(action);
  * Registers listeners via subscribe(listener).

```javascript
import { createStore } from 'redux'
import myReducer from './reducers'
let store = createStore(myReducer)
```

Getting Started
-------------


#### Dependencies

 - Node
 - NPM

Tool to create the zip


 `brew install p7zip`


#### Install
Install package's dependencies

`npm install`

#### Run the app

`npm start`

#### Usage
Create Visualforce page pointing to: *localHost:8080/bundle.js*

Example

  ```html
  <apex:page applyBodyTag="false"  docType="html-5.0">
      <html>
      <head>
        <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1"/>
      </head>
        <body>
          <div id="container">
          </div>
        </body>
        <script type="text/javascript">
        </script>
        <script charset="utf-8" src="https://localhost:8080/bundle.js" type="text/javascript"></script>
      </html>
    </apex:page>
```

#### Deploy
The following script generate and upload the zip to salesforce

`npm deploySR`

Replace the script tag on the page pointing to the static resource. Example:

 ```html

  <script charset="utf-8" src="{!URLFOR($Resource.mystaticresource,'bundle.js')}" type="text/javascript"></script>

 ```

### Deploy Configuration

Edit salesforce.config.js file:

```
username: '',
password: '',
zipName:'',
zipDescription: ''
```
